# Handwritten-digit-recognition
Digit recognition system is the working of a machine to train itself or recognizing the digits from different sources like emails, bank cheque, papers, images, etc. and in different real-world scenarios for online handwriting recognition on computer tablets or system, recognize number plates of vehicles, processing bank cheque amounts, numeric entries in forms filled up by hand (say-tax forms) and so on.
This dataset includes handwriting digits total of 70,000 images consisting of 60,000 examples in training set with labelled images from 10 digits (0 to 9) and 10,000 examples in testing set.Handwritten digits are images in the form of 28*28 gray scale intensities of images representing an image. The size of an image is 28 by 28, so there are 784 (28*28) values for the label. Each pixel has a single pixel-value associated with it, indicating the lightness or darkness of that pixel, with higher numbers meaning darker. This pixel-value is an integer between 0 to 255 , inclusive. Our goal is to correctly identify digits from a dataset of tons of thousands of handwritten images.
First I have done some exploratory data analysis to discover certain features of the data.Then with a little pre-processing and re-shaping of the data,I have made the data fit for CNN model.
I have first tried a logistic regression model which gave a 91% accuracy,the I have tried a basic CNN model which gave aroun 99% accuracy and finally a well built CNN which gave around 99.6% accuracy.
Then I have deployed the model using flask on my local machine.I have uploaded all the files including the model json and h5,css,html,js,python files used in this project
